Quinn: Previously on
"Project Blue Book"...
How are you here?
I'm here
when you need me.
Girl: [ Echoing ]
8, 3, 1, 2.
I'm here when I need you.
There's a church in town.
When you get your head together,
come find me.
What the hell do you
need me for?
♪♪
Did you steal
"sensitive material"
from a classified program
at White Forest?
Hynek:
Is this what was so urgent?
Is that what your investigation
is about?
Well,
like I said, Professor.
Still ongoing.
♪♪
Morning.
You got a call, too?
Sounded more like
an order.
"Get down to Blue Book,
set up the projector..."
What did you hear?
Enough to be concerned.
I need coffee.
Yeah, me, too.
Faye,
do we have any coffee o--
At ease, Captain.
I asked her to step away,
give us some privacy.
Coffee can wait.
We need to unplug
these phones, too.
We don't want
any interruptions.
-Yes, sir.
-Here, set this up.
I'll get the curtains.
[ Doorbell rings ]
-Jack, hi.
-Hi.
Sorry to bother you,
but...
have you seen Donna?
Oh, she brought cookies
the other night.
I meant to return
the plate, but...
Is something wrong?
I've been away on business
for a few days
and, well, I know
you know what that's like.
I'm sure Allen's gone
like that, too.
But she wasn't answering
the phone,
and then when I came home,
she wasn't here.
I called her mother,
her sister.
Nobody's seen her.
Jack,
come in for a moment.
Uh, okay.
Thank you.
Harding: Gentleman, what you are
about to see was taken
from a training exercise
at Sedalia Air Field last night.
We haven't had any time
to verify all of it
since details
keep coming in,
but after you watch this,
you'll understand.
All set.
Lights.
Man:
Corporal, we're rolling.
Hello.
I'm Corporal James Vaughn
of the 3rd Infantry Brigade.
Today's training exercise
will be conducted
in the hills
outside of Pettis County.
The focus of the exercise
will be infantry
mobility assessment during
simulated ground assault.
This film is for
the purpose of the --
The hell is that?
What are you doing?
I'm right here.
There's something behind you.
Look.
[ Static ]
What the...
[ Gunshots ]
Hey!
What's happening over there?
[ Indistinct shouting ]
♪♪
Pick him up!
Haul him out of here!
Fall back! Fall back!
Move it! Fall back!
[ Indistinct shouting ]
♪♪
Engagement
lasted for 10 minutes.
Engagement with what?
I couldn't tell what that was.
We have no idea, either.
Professor?
I couldn't make anything out
clearly enough.
It was, uh, something
in the sky, though.
That wasn't
something of ours.
Would we be here
if it was ours?
Russians?
It's unlikely they'd be able
to operate that close
to one of our bases.
What I do know is that a whole
battalion suffered injuries
and claimed that whatever
those things were
fired some sort of death ray
at them.
At this point, we have multiple
military witnesses, injuries,
and a strange anomaly from an
unknown source caught on camera.
Under any other
rules of engagement,
that would be
an act of war.
And thankfully, we got control
of information
going in and out
of that base.
No one outside that unit or this
room knows anything about this.
What can we do?
Get down to
Camp Knoll,
figure out what the hell
we're dealing with,
whether they're military,
Russians, or otherwise.
And then...
tell us how to kill it.
♪♪
You're back.
I couldn't very well dispose
of the body nearby, could I?
That would be sloppy.
I've always admired
your attention to detail.
You heard from the captain...
since your last date?
I'm sure he'll call
when he's ready.
It's unlike you
to move so slowly.
Given recent events,
I should be more careful now.
Yes,
I certainly hope so.
♪♪
Looking good.
[ Soldiers clamoring ]
Listen to us! Look!
We want -- We want you
to tell us the story,
but one person at a time,
understand?
Okay, go on.
You.
Alright, one minute,
everything was fine.
-It just came out of nowhere!
-This huge, orange light.
It came right up
off the mountain.
It was blue, you moron.
-And it was freezing cold.
-It was orange.
But it wasn't cold.
It had heat --
heat coming off it like you --
you were staring
into an oven.
Well,
I felt icicles pelting me.
Look what it did
to my face.
Yeah,
and I got burns on my arms
from when it exploded
after I shot it.
Our ammo
went right through it!
Okay, look, it's not unusual
to get different perspectives
on the same event,
but no one needs to get upset
if your story is different
from his story.
The thing broke into pieces
that flew around together,
like it was under
some kind of control.
Don't listen
to this asshole.
He's just trying to make
himself sound important.
You think I'm doing what?!
-Sit down.
-You calling me a liar?
Say it to my face!
-[ Speaks indistinctly ]
[ Soldiers shouting
indistinctly ]
Hey, hey, hey, hey!
Stand down!
You're rangers!
Act like it!
Alright?
-Everything okay, Captain?
Actually,
we need a break.
Can we get a little help here,
please?
-Out. Get them out.
-Move!
Stay here.
Get out.
Thank you.
What just happened there?
♪♪
You don't just swing on
a fellow soldier like that.
Look, how can we
draw any conclusions
if no one's telling us
the same story?
We should take a look
at where this happened.
Donna never struck me
as the type.
To run off
with another man?
To leave her husband.
No warning, no note.
You know, I just saw her
stocking up
her bomb shelter
the other day.
It doesn't make sense.
-I don't know, Mimi.
You never know what goes on
behind closed doors.
What secrets
people are hiding.
Allen's a great example.
What about Allen?
Well, he still doesn't tell you
where he's going
or what he's working on
half the time, right?
Oh, we've talked
about that.
And?
He's sharing...
but honestly, it...
it scares me
even more now.
What do you mean?
♪♪
He brought this thing home
the other day.
This -- This object.
It was...
I finally made him take it
out of the house.
♪♪
Do you know what it was?
Allen's working on
some really strange things --
stuff I never would've
even imagined before,
let alone believed in.
The flying saucers.
More.
There's more to it
than that.
And I just don't
feel safe anymore.
That is understandable.
Ever since that man
broke into our house,
then building the bomb shelter,
things have just...
gotten worse.
I want to feel
in control again.
I want to do
what you did.
What I did?
After you were mugged and
you wanted to feel safe again.
I want to buy a gun.
And I want your help.
♪♪
So, according to the map,
this is roughly
the unit's position
when they had
the sighting.
It looks like...
a forest, so they got
that part right.
♪♪
Captain.
Wow.
Got to be
a thousand shell casings.
They're everywhere.
♪♪
I don't see any evidence
of something firing back.
You think it could've been
another unit,
mistaken for the orb
they described?
What, friendly fire?
With what, a flamethrower?
Those guys were burned,
not shot.
True, but after their accounts
and the film,
hearing what
the Generals had to say...
W-Wait.
Think the Generals aren't
telling us the whole story?
♪♪
[ Birds calling ]
What is that?
I don't know.
[ Warbling ]
-Doc...
-Shh.
It's coming from
up that way.
If whatever that thing is
is back...
We're going to find it.
I don't like it.
It doesn't match any of
the group sightings
we've got documented.
Well, you've done this
longer than me.
We'll let Hynek
and Quinn work.
Maybe they can get
to the bottom of it.
The idea of this new weapon
being used against our soldiers,
the American people,
is...
Well,
we do have our own weapon
that we can fight back with
in this scenario.
Yes, we do.
Let's use it.
♪♪
[ Birds screeching ]
What the hell is that?
Hynek: Murmuration.
Don't you
just mean birds?
Starlings.
Their swarming behavior
is called "murmuration."
Hundreds of them,
sometimes thousands
moving in
intricate patterns.
To this day, science can't
explain their random flight.
But to see them out here
screeching like that?
It's -- It's unusual.
What are they doing now?
♪♪
Look out!
How'd you get
so good at that?
You don't buy a gun
and not practice how to use it.
The more you practice,
the more at ease you'll be
and the safer you'll feel.
You ready?
Yes.
Safety's on, so we're
just gonna walk you
through the steps
before you fire, okay?
Okay.
♪♪
How do you feel?
-Nervous.
-Good.
That's what we want.
Relaxation is where
we want to get to.
Forward here so you have
a steady stance.
Put your gun up
towards the target.
You want to
use both hands.
Now breathe.
Slow.
Controlled.
You're doing great.
Slow it down even more.
I'm taking the safety off.
Breathe in.
Exhale and squeeze.
[ Yelps, laughs ]
[ Laughs ]
How did that feel?
Good.
You have
four more shots.
♪♪
I want to do it again.
Bird dissection.
Encyclopedia Britannica
again?
14th edition, but mostly
I'm just winging it.
Get it?
Yeah,
you're hilarious.
Those look like burns,
maybe?
Ah, not as evident,
but look here.
Its eyes show
clear deterioration.
So something blinded them?
Could explain why
they attacked each other.
Yeah, maybe, but the starlings
are very social birds.
They live in flocks.
They're used to
group cooperation.
To just go against their nature
like that,
it's hard to justify.
Hmm.
You know what else
that sounds like?
The soldiers.
Yeah, there's no
real explanation
for why they attacked each other
during our interview, either.
Birds are notorious
for carrying viruses.
Maybe it's a new strain of
something no one's seen before.
That makes you attack
your friends?
Lose your ability to discern
between friend or foe.
Like -- Like rabies,
for example.
So this could be
contagious?
Until we know more,
we can only assume.
We need to
quarantine the unit.
And do blood work
for the whole base,
including ourselves.
-Copy that.
♪♪
Corporal Wells,
welcome to Camp Knoll.
It's okay, son.
You can step out.
♪♪
Why am I here?
These gentlemen will make sure
you get comfortable.
Am I in trouble?
I completed the program,
didn't I?
You came through
with flying colors.
We just want to see
what we bought.
We just need to have you
make a call, son.
Like I was trained?
That's right.
This time,
hopefully someone answers.
♪♪
Hynek: I've taken blood samples
from the eight witnesses
and sent it for testing.
Along with these surface
dustings from their uniforms,
we should have
a better indication
of what
we're dealing with.
So what if
it is contagious?
We touched those birds.
Are you angry with me?
Feelings of hostility,
mistrust?
What,
more than usual?
If it was contagious,
it'd be more widespread by now,
and coming into contact
with a dead animal,
it's even less
likely to spread.
Excuse me, sir.
Your call's been put through.
♪♪
MP: Other truck.
Come on.
Come on. Come on.
[ Soldiers coughing, wheezing ]
Jump.
Let's go.
Hurry it along.
Come on.
Bring it up the back.
Let's go.
Get up, you son of a bitch!
♪♪
It's hot in here.
I-Is this not gonna work?
Do you need to be outside?
What th--
No.
No,
you don't understand, sirs.
♪♪
It's a sign.
[ Coffee boiling ]
♪♪
Corporal?
Ah...
Are they coming?
No.
They're already here.
but I'm waiting
for some lab results.
So, I don't know, tomorrow,
the day after...
Mimi: Allen? Allen,
I-I can't hear you.
You're going in
and out here, too.
Allen?
[ Feedback whines ]
Mimi?
Hey, what's going on?
[ Sirens wailing ]
[ Soldiers clamoring ]
♪♪
[ Horn blares ]
Man: Get it over to
the supply tent, now!
[ Soldiers coughing ]
♪♪
Hynek,
get back inside!
This is not a drill.
Whatever it is that attacked
those soldiers is back.
-I'm coming with you!
-No, you're staying inside.
Get back inside!
That's an order!
♪♪
What are you looking at?
You guys were all out there
last night, also, right?
And what if we were?
The platoon that saw the orb,
just wondering if any of you
saw something strange,
as well.
What we saw is none
of your Goddamned business.
I didn't see nothing.
Don't make shit up about me
if I didn't.
Yeah,
then why are we out here
with shoot-to-kill orders,
dumbass?
Don't call me
"dumbass"!
♪♪
What's our position?
Oh,
you're in charge now?
Look, I'm just asking in case
e might want to pull over.
♪♪
Alright,
easy, there, brother.
You're not his brother.
Load your weapons!
♪♪
Look alive.
Eyes on me.
We see anything out there,
we are going to kill it.
Give me a hoo-ahh!
All: Hoo-aah!
You open your mouth again
on my command,
and I'll ask these boys
to shut it for you.
♪♪
Corporal?
Corporal,
can you hear me?
[ Breathing heavily ]
You were hearing
something.
W-What was it saying?
It doesn't speak.
It moves.
♪♪
[ Gasping ]
[ Speaking gibberish ]
♪♪
Hynek: If I had all the answers,
I wouldn't need you, would I?
♪♪
[ Speaking gibberish ]
Stop him!
♪♪
[ Groans ]
Get out of my head!
Stop him!
♪♪
You're from that
Project Blue Book, aren't you?
You don't belong with us.
Hey,
all hands on deck, right?
Pull over!
Stop the truck!
♪♪
Hey.
Weapon.
♪♪
Okay.
Why don't we all just
take a breath here.
On my mark,
you take this man down.
Hold on, hold on!
One...
I'm on your side!
Two!
Hey, 9:00,
who the hell is that?
♪♪
Stand down!
Alright, that man is a doctor.
He can help you.
He can explain
what's happening here.
Don't listen to him!
Gentlemen, important message
for you from HQ.
The drill is over.
Stand down.
W-What drill?
Psychological evaluation
measuring battle station
preparedness.
This was
your final exercise.
-You're lying.
-Excellent.
That was exactly the response
we were hoping for.
You're not supposed to
trust me.
This is -- It's all --
It's all part of the exercise...
right, Captain?
That's right.
Best unit we ever tested.
Make sure
it goes in the report.
♪♪
Man: Unit 17, come in.
Do you read? Over.
Unit 17, over.
Unit 17,
where the hell are you?
We need you in position,
on the double.
Copy that, sir.
But...the drill is over.
What drill?
Get your ass in position,
patrol leader.
We're at battle stations!
[ Screaming ]
The lights are back!
They're back!
They're gonna kill us all!
Go!
Get 'em, boys!
Move!
♪♪
-I don't see 'em, sir.
-Keep looking.
We need to find
those sons of bitches.
♪♪
Unit 17, come in.
Are you in distress? Over.
-Negative.
Well, then, get your ass
to Sector Bravo,
now, or you're AWOL.
Over.
3-1-Bravo, on our way.
Copy that.
We'll notify.
Get back to the damn truck,
now.
You heard him.
Move out.
Man: Let's go.
[ Man speaks indistinctly ]
Those soldiers are reacting to
some kind of behavioral agent,
the same thing
that affected the starlings,
but they were exposed
last night.
I mean, who knows how many
are infected.
That sounds like a good reason
for you
to stay put
like I told you.
Safe and sound,
Professor.
[ Truck doors close ]
[ Truck engine starts ]
Where are we going?
Right back
into the shit.
♪♪
I mean, it really is
the perfect weapon.
A virus turns people
against each other,
filling them with rage
and paranoia.
Until
they take each other out.
I mean, just imagine
what would happen
if it reached
the civilian popu--
Wait, Doc!
Watch out!
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa!
♪♪
Soldier?
It's Wells.
Doc,
if he's infected...
Last night, were you out here
with any other soldiers?
Generals brought me.
What'd he say?
They brought me here
to make contact.
And I have.
Ah...
Ah.
Did you hear that?
God, it's so loud.
It hurts my...brain.
Look at me.
-It's too loud!
Look at me!
It's going to be --
-Ah!
-You're okay! Look at me!
It's in here.
I know it's in here.
No, no, no,
wait, wait!
Please!
Wells!
Just calm down.
Don't!
No, no, no, no.
Put that down.
Put that down, please.
Please.
You don't know what that is.
Might be --
No, no. No, no.
It's not gonna hurt me.
-Just --
-I-I promise.
The hell was that?
It's from White Forest.
I knew
you took something.
♪♪
Hey!
Stay in the car!
-No!
-This is your fault!
♪♪
Stop!
Wells.
Wells!
♪♪
Captain.
Are you okay?
You get him?
Guy hit me
like a ton of bricks.
What the hell
is that thing?
I wish I knew.
♪♪
[ Coughs ]
What the hell are those?
Last night wasn't
an alien invasion.
It was
a military experiment.
What're you saying?
I'm saying the army did this
to their own men.
♪♪
Come on.
We know enough.
There was no UFO.
It was you, wasn't it,
you mother--
Excuse me, Captain?
Where is this attitude
coming from?
That sighting?
Those soldiers are victims
of a neurochemical attack
sprayed from these canisters,
and once they're tested,
I'm sure you'll find
that the active agent
led to
aggressive behavior,
which turned the men
against each other.
There were no aliens.
No Russians.
It was ours.
You really didn't know,
did you?
Of course we didn't.
What about Wells?
We ran into him
on the road.
He said that
you sent for him.
-You saw Wells?
-Just for a minute.
He ran away.
-Where?
What happened?
Well, the --
He thought we were trying
to kill him, too, I guess.
Wells tried to make it
back to base.
Something happened.
He didn't pull through.
♪♪
I'm sure the autopsy
will confirm that his death was
from whatever you found
out there, doctor.
Hynek: How could Wells
have just died?
He wasn't even there
during the attack.
He said the -- that
th-the Generals brought him.
I -- How could they have
even found him out there?
You are asking questions
when you should be
thanking
your lucky stars.
He's the only other person
who could pin the theft
of that whatever-it-was you
stole from White Forest on you.
You lied to them
to protect me.
No,
I was protecting myself.
They find out you took it,
I'm going down for it, as well.
I wanted to tell you.
Okay, maybe I didn't.
But how did you grab it?
Something like that,
they bury it deep.
That man I told you about,
he -- he gave me a key.
-You're kidding me.
-No.
He showed me everything I needed
to know to get it.
-Why?
-You saw what happened to Wells.
The power
that object exerted.
So, what's that prove?
Alien artifacts, technol--
I...
I don't know, but the military
is hiding the truth.
And this man,
he's what?
He's using you to get
to the bottom of it?
I'm not sure yet.
Alright, so, if Wells took
this thing and he's gone,
where the hell is it now?
♪♪
Mom!
Hey, Mom!
Honey, what is it?
There's a police car in front
of the neighbor's house.
-What?
-Come on, you got to see.
Mr. Smith
is out taking to them.
Come on!
Fairchild: Yes, sir.
Yes.
Thank you, Mr. President.
Gentlemen, you're back.
You son of a bitch,
you set us up.
You knew Camp Knoll
wasn't a legitimate sighting.
Testing chemical weapons
on our own soldiers?
Without our knowledge?
That nerve agent
allows us to confuse
the enemy
on any battlefield,
conferring significant
tactical advantage
without any lasting damage
to our own men.
How the hell
do you know that?
You didn't see
those kids.
-You have no idea --
-Of course I have an idea.
Who do you think put it
into development?
Well, why the hell didn't you
read us in on it
if you knew we'd be
chasing our own tails?
Because I was testing
something else --
a program continuing
without my knowledge.
What was his name?
Corporal Wells?
The one you brought in
from the program I shut down?
You went behind my back
and purposefully kept me
in the dark,
and that is what
I was testing.
Your loyalty.
After today,
your days of operating
on your own terms
are over.
Gassing our own men,
and we're being disloyal?
We'll see about that.
Go after him, Hugh.
Make sure he doesn't
do anything stupid.
Again.
♪♪
Hynek: Hello?
I'm home.
Mimi: Allen.
What,
are you smoking now?
Drinking in the middle
of the day?
It's been a rough one.
Rough couple of days since
you've been gone, actually.
What's going on?
Donna's missing.
Donna?
What, next-door Donna?
Jack called the police.
He has no idea
where she is.
She...
might've run off
with another man.
What makes you
say that?
Jack.
I guess they had
a lot of problems.
A lot of secrets.
But we don't have secrets
anymore, do we?
Problems?
-Mimi, we are fine.
I told you, I want us to be
on the same page.
But you still haven't told me
everything that's going on!
Because I just --
I don't even know myself.
Are we in danger?
We are, aren't we?
No, not anymore.
I'm going to fix things.
Fix things where?
Because home is what's broken
right now,
Allen,
and we can't keep doing this.
I can't keep
doing this.
What are you saying?
Project Blue Book.
Your job.
You need to make a choice,
and now.
♪♪
Girl: [ Echoing ] 8, 1, 9,
5, 6, 5, 9.